This week’s reading seemed to be centered around the debates surrounding certain base forms of communication and spreading of information. The readings concerning the telegraph and the “end-to-end” term were based on controversy and the author’s opinion that there was a lack of respect towards each of these. I was fascinated mainly by how the telegraph transformed businesses when it was created. 
It seemed natural to me to assume that the telegraph would separate physical movement from communication. However, I found the section about arbitrage and the transformation of business language incredibly interesting. The telegraph greatly expanded business markets for all consumers and in all cities because communication was so quick and streamlined. The specific example from the reading talked about how the market in Cincinnati completely changed with the telegraph because all prices on the market became available (Carey 2009). 
The “end-to-end” conversation was very informative in explaining the means by which technology works. The internet was a revolutionary innovation because it made the world monumentally smaller and more connected; the way it did this was debated between “end-to-end” technology and the virtual circuit. The “end-to-end” technology was based on the idea of sending information directly from point A to B in a straightforward manner. On the other hand the virtual circuit was based on systems that could relay information intermittently. The ultimate argument seemed to be that “end-to-end” technology is more effective based on its general flexibility whereas with the virtual circuit its complexity limited the ability to update with applications(Gillespie 2006). Despite this argument, the idea that information could be broken up and spread out arbitrarily then could recollect on a screen was an incredible discovery but was also one that required significant litigation (Gillespie 2006). 
In the court of law “end-to-end” technology has been defined a number of ways based on its purpose (Gillespie 2006). In many cases the purposes have differed but overall the main use of “end-to-end” technology has been in creating a functioning internet and actually understanding how it works. The wildly misunderstood reality of the internet is that it is made up of a number of layers to carry and spread information using programs related to html. The litigation in particular over “end-to-end” technology was relatable to another of our readings concerning the cyclical nature of major discoveries. Monumental discoveries pique public excitement, satisfy wants for a period, then a new issue arises and the cycle restarts (Wu 2010). Litigation comes into effect in the production of innovations and releasing them to the public. Overall, the debates set forth in this week’s readings introduced many major means of communication and spread of information. 

Works Cited:
Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The case of the Telegraph
Gillespie, T. (2006) Engineering a Principle: ‘End-to-End’ in the Design of the Internet. Social Studies of Science, Vol 36, No. 3. Sage Publications
Wu, T. (2010) The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. Chapters 1 and 15, pages 3 -14, and 196-203

Week 3 Blog/Hypertext reflection

My reflection on the hypertext self portrait At first, I found the idea of coding and working in a text editor to be a very intimidating and daunting task. However, after professor O’hara explained the layers of the internet to us in a powerpoint, then offered us help and demonstrations for the project, it actually became an extremely enriching and creative task. Based on this project being carried out on HTML I very much appreciated the powerpoint slides that explained HTTP/HTTPS, URL/URI, HTML, CSS, JS, JSON, and DOM. Due to the understanding I gained about the layers of the internet I was better able to learn different functions on CSS like uploading audio to a page, attaching hyperlinks to pictures, adjusting font, and framing pictures with a certain percentage of border-radius. Approaching this project from the perspective of someone who has never had any experience in coding, it felt like a daunting to ask to simply look at a page of coding and understand it because it truly appears to be another language. However, looking at forums about CSS and JS shed light on the nature of HTML and its functions hence making the task more doable. Also, Brackets was a good text editor to work with because the pop-ups did an excellent job of guessing what I was trying to do even if I wasn’t doing things perfectly. My experience sorting through all of the articles and selected readings thus far has been interesting because it has opened my eyes to a world of discoveries, cycles, and controversies I did not know existed. From our first readings about telegraphs and the monumental innovation that was to our later talks about the world wide web and creating wifi and internet coverage, a lot of what we have read can in some way be related to our project. The cyclical nature of discoveries being made, the public getting excited, a new problem arising, and then that discovery becoming obsolete can apply to our use of brackets, a text editor that anticipates the functions we are trying to perform (Dourish). While it is unclear now what future problems may arise or need correcting, for now brackets has served as a helpful and exciting tool to the coding community. Our entire study and use of HTML would not have been possible without the original thinking and intent of the telegraph. The idea of separating information from human travel is an idea at the very foundation of HTML (Carey). When creating the hypertext portrait itself I defined it in such a way as to express my literary creativity. So, I wrote a personal memoir pertaining to the different aspects of my life and attached pictures to each section. To create interaction for the viewer, I have an audio file on the page that plays everything I wrote as well as hyperlinks attached to each picture which redirect you to related interests of mine. Overall, this project pushed me to learn subject material I have never had experience working with and it developed my abilities as a student. 
Works Cited: Dourish, P. (2015) Not The Internet, but This Internet: How Othernets Illuminate Our Feudal Internet. 5th Decennial Aarhus Conference on Critical Alternatives Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph

Hypertext self-portrait link: https://bwhitworth01.github.io/Hypertext-Self-portrait/

Week 4 Blog: 

This week the reading I found the most interesting was the reading titled: “DesignX: complex sociotechnical systems.” I am personally interested in a career in the medical field with an aspect of my career being centered around entrepreneurship. As such, I was intrigued when I read in the introductory abstract that the paper would address sociotechnical design. In other words, the paper would address design topics for technology related to fields such as medicine, government, and transportation. The first example this paper honed in on had to do with radiation oncology treatment and how it is drastically different from the emergency room of a hospital. According to the reading, these treatment centers are technically on opposite ends of a spectrum (Norman, et al 85). The differences between these treatment centers has to do with scheduling, how treatment is administered, the protocols associated with each department, and their respective technological needs as well as how those technologies are designed. The entire premise of improving design methods and products was interesting to me as it pertained to this example and in general. With this example improving design seemed to pertain to finding ways to improve workplace efficiency and use of funds by designing in different ways. In general, the topic I was able to relate to had to do with designing technology capable of doing what users cannot. This aspect of the article reminded me of a recent scenario: someone I knew said, “Wow that 6-year-old is a genius for knowing how to use that iphone.” Upon contemplation, I realized that it is really the people who designed that iphone who are the geniuses for making it simple and usable enough for a 6-year-old. The aspect of human behavior and cognition was interesting to me because it illuminated the idea that, often times, designers get detached from the reason they are working: to create technology for people (Norman, et al 86). This being their goal, it’s necessary to engage in the process of making technology more usable for people, even if it is a more tedious process. The criticisms pointed out in this essay also pertain to a number of other issues in design like dependency and how technology is applied social/economic frameworks. The dependency aspect of design was one I was unfamiliar with and did not entirely understand. The article talked about limiting dependencies in design, specifically two-way dependencies. Perhaps it is just my own ignorance or my lack of knowledge in design and technology but I do not entirely understand why it is so important to eliminate these types of dependencies other than to cut wasteful programming. Constraints on design has been another major topic of interest with respect to DesignX; this is the gateway to political and economic frameworks. Overall, I was most interested in this DesignX article and thoroughly enjoyed reading about how design and certain fields are connected through technology. 

Works Cited: Norman, Donald A., and Pieter Jan Stappers. (2015) "DesignX: complex sociotechnical systems." She Ji: The Journal of Design, Economics, and Innovation 1.2 83-106.

Week 5 Blog: 

Considering the readings for this week I found the most interest in the Los Angeles Times article about how jobs are becoming taskified with the rise of the internet and the creation of digital companies. The statistics about how jobs are changing was interesting to me because all we ever hear about is that jobs are getting automated and workers are getting displaced. Services even make calculators to determine how likely it is a certain career path will become automated. However, “crowdwork” is estimated to make up about 30% of the job market in the near future based on the orientation of this online platform for business. The really intriguing information arose in the story of Team Genius. This team was a group in working the virtual assembly line through accounts on an online provider and suddenly, there accounts were terminated one by one and the money they had earned in the two months prior was forfeited to the provider. This represents an interesting occurrence because the job market is so rapidly shifting towards online business and yet these workers got caught up in a sort of horror story about all of their work getting nullified. The reason, it turns out, that the online provider was allowed to terminate their accounts had to do with the fact that legislation has not truly been written in such a way to protect online laborers. All work performed online is done through terms of service agreements, essentially a handshake between providers and laborers. As such, the online providers have nearly unchecked power over their workers in the sense that they control the entire domain in which their workers work and are hence able to manipulate and exploit their labor. The bigger picture of this issue is what genuinely fascinated me. Throughout high school, especially in our american history classes, the issue of the worker-employer relationship has been a consistent theme. It took our nation decades and even centuries to truly protect all types of workers from exploitation. From work hours and minimum wage, to limits on child labor, or nation has truly come a long way. However, the story of the genius team in online business seems to represent a new domain in which laborers need more protection and indicates that the relationship between workers and their employers needs to be remedied in a healthy way, especially considering the projections that show how much online business and taskified jobs will be increasing in the future. The article suggests that nurturing the worker-employer relationship can be done by erasing the “fulltime-freelance divide” (Gray latimes). This idea is centered on recognizing what the benefits are for each side of the relationship. Employers favor crowdworkers because they serve collectively as a full-time workforce ready to carry out business. The problem stems from the instability and lack of coverage for workers. However, the article suggests that if workers were given portable healthcare, a basic income, and retirement plans the relationship scale could become balanced (Gray latimes.com). This suggestion seems to me like a humane way to do justice by workers and provide employment while still creating an advantageous environments in which employers can do business. Overall, the entire concept of online business is fascinating and serves as a major development for the global economy; however, I learned that with new platforms for conducting business there come new challenges to face in the employee-employer relationship and, as of now, that relationship in online business has yet to be negotiated for the sake of stability and optimizing the global economy. 

Works Cited: Gray, M. (2016) Your Job is About to Get Taskified Los Angeles Times
